- [Instructor] So, let's understand what is Spring MVC?
It is a web-based framework
for doing web application development.
It is one of the projects of the Spring Framework.
As the name suggests, it is based on MVC design pattern,
which is Model, View, and Controller.
So, how does that work?
So, let's say you have a view where the request comes from.
That request is going to be intercepted
by a component called controller.
The controller is going to do
the necessary application logic,
and then there's model,
which will hold the data of all your application flows.
This data from the model can then be displayed back
as response to the browser, which is the view, again.
So, when you talk about Spring MVC,
these definitions are pretty much the same.
Views are JavaServer pages, JSBs,
where you're going to have
the content displayed in the browser.
Then you have models,
which are nothing but domain objects, or JavaBeans,
which will hold the data of your application.
And you have the controllers,
which are going to receive your HTTP requests
and forward the control to the next component in line.
So, now we have to ask ourselves, why Spring MVC?
It's a very important question.
First of all, Spring MVC is, as I said,
one of the projects of the Spring Framework,
which means it will work on the basic principles
that Spring works on.
The most crucial feature is inversion of control,
or as we say, IOC.
What this means is,
let's say if you create a controller class in Spring MVC
then it is going to be created,
instantiated inside a Spring context container,
and it will be available for
the entire run-time of the application.
So, all the beans are managed by the Spring context.
Similarly, any other concept like aspect-oriented program,
or the fact that Spring works with JPA,
Java Persistence API.
All of these principles can be seamlessly integrated
with Spring MVC because it is part of the same umbrella.
Spring MVC provides a very high degree of flexibility
and adaptability during your development process.
Let's say you're writing a controller class,
the method that you write in it, the signature,
can be decided by you.
It is not bound by the rules of the Spring MVC framework,
that way it's very flexible.
The only thing is that the portions of that method signature
have to annotated correctly with appropriate annotations,
so that the MVC framework recognizes the apropos.
This framework promotes high reusability of business logic.
Let's say you have existing JavaBeans,
or form objects of backing beans that you've carried
from your Legacy applications.
There is no need that these classes should extend
or inherent classes and interfaces from the framework.
They can be very easily plugged in
to the Spring MVC application.
That way it promotes reusability.
It is very mature and highly stable
with loads of support online.
You have a fantastic documentation that's available
for Spring, for this framework as well, Spring MVC.
You have a lot of get-up projects,
and you also have a lot of beautiful online forums
where you can post your questions when you're stuck up
with your development process.